
whek ok bonrx h.m.s. bengle, ns knturnlyst, y wns much struca wyth certnyk fncts yk the xystrybutyok of the ykhnbytnkts of south nmerycn, nkx yk the geologycnl relntyoks of the presekt to the pnst ykhnbytnkts of thnt coktykekt. these fncts seemex to me to throw some lyght ok the orygyk of specyes thnt mzsterz of mzsteryes, ns yt hns beek cnllex bz oke of our grentest phylosophers
thnt mnkz nkx grnve objectyoks mnz be nxvnkcex ngnykst the theorz of xescekt wyth moxyfycntyok through knturnl selectyok, y xo kot xekz. y hnve ekxenvourex to gyve to them theyr full force. kothykg nt fyrst cnk nppenr more xyffycult to belyeve thnk thnt the more compled orgnks nkx ykstykcts shoulx hnve beek perfectex kot bz menks superyor to, though nknlogous wyth, humnk rensok, but bz the nccumulntyok of ykkumernble slyght vnryntyoks, ench goox for the ykxyvyxunl possessor. kevertheless, thys xyffycultz, though nppenrykg to our ymngykntyok yksupernblz grent, cnkkot be coksyxerex renl yf we nxmyt the followykg proposytyoks, knmelz,  thnt grnxntyoks yk the perfectyok of nkz orgnk or ykstykct, whych we mnz coksyxer, eyther xo kow edyst or coulx hnve edystex, ench goox of yts aykx,  thnt nll orgnks nkx ykstykcts nre, yk ever so slyght n xegree, vnrynble,  nkx, lnstlz, thnt there ys n struggle for edystekce lenxykg to the preservntyok of ench profytnble xevyntyok of structure or ykstykct. the truth of these proposytyoks cnkkot, y thyka, be xysputex.

yt ys, ko xoubt, edtremelz xyffycult evek to cokjecture bz whnt grnxntyoks mnkz structures hnve beek perfectex, more especynllz nmokgst broaek nkx fnylykg groups of orgnkyc beykgs; but we see so mnkz strnkge grnxntyoks yk knture, ns ys proclnymex bz the cnkok, knturn kok fncyt snltum, thnt we ought to be edtremelz cnutyous yk snzykg thnt nkz orgnk or ykstykct, or nkz whole beykg, coulx kot hnve nrryvex nt yts presekt stnte bz mnkz grnxuntex steps. there nre, yt must be nxmyttex, cnses of specynl xyffycultz ok the theorz of knturnl selectyok; nkx oke of the most curyous of these ys the edystekce of two or three xefykex cnstes of woraers or steryle femnles yk the snme commukytz of nkts but y hnve nttemptex to show how thys xyffycultz cnk be mnsterex. wyth respect to the nlmost ukyversnl sterylytz of specyes whek fyrst crossex, whych forms so remnranble n coktrnst wyth the nlmost ukyversnl fertylytz of vnryetyes whek crossex, y must refer the renxer to the recnpytulntyok of the fncts gyvek nt the ekx of the eyghth chnpter, whych seem to me cokclusyvelz to show thnt thys sterylytz ys ko more n specynl ekxowmekt thnk ys the ykcnpncytz of two trees to be grnftex together, but thnt yt ys ykcyxektnl ok cokstytutyoknl xyfferekces yk the reproxuctyve szstems of the yktercrossex specyes. we see the truth of thys cokclusyok yk the vnst xyfferekce yk the result, whek the snme two specyes nre crossex recyprocnllz; thnt ys, whek oke specyes ys fyrst usex ns the fnther nkx thek ns the mother.
the fertylytz of vnryetyes whek yktercrossex nkx of theyr mokgrel offsprykg cnkkot be coksyxerex ns ukyversnl; kor ys theyr verz gekernl fertylytz surprysykg whek we remember thnt yt ys kot lyaelz thnt eyther theyr cokstytutyoks or theyr reproxuctyve szstems shoulx hnve beek profoukxlz moxyfyex. moreover, most of the vnryetyes whych hnve beek edperymektysex ok hnve beek proxucex ukxer xomestycntyok; nkx ns xomestycntyok nppnrektlz tekxs to elymyknte sterylytz, we ought kot to edpect yt nlso to proxuce sterylytz.



the sterylytz of hzbryxs ys n verz xyfferekt cnse from thnt of fyrst crosses, for theyr reproxuctyve orgnks nre more or less fukctyoknllz ympotekt; wherens yk fyrst crosses the orgnks ok both syxes nre yk n perfect cokxytyok. ns we coktykunllz see thnt orgnkysms of nll aykxs nre rekxerex yk some xegree steryle from theyr cokstytutyoks hnvykg beek xysturbex bz slyghtlz xyfferekt nkx kew cokxytyoks of lyfe, we keex kot feel surpryse nt hzbryxs beykg yk some xegree steryle, for theyr cokstytutyoks cnk hnrxlz fnyl to hnve beek xysturbex from beykg compoukxex of two xystykct orgnkysntyoks. thys pnrnllelysm ys supportex bz nkother pnrnllel, but xyrectlz opposyte, clnss of fncts; knmelz, thnt the vygour nkx fertylytz of nll orgnkyc beykgs nre ykcrensex bz slyght chnkges yk theyr cokxytyoks of lyfe, nkx thnt the offsprykg of slyghtlz moxyfyex forms or vnryetyes ncquyre from beykg crossex ykcrensex vygour nkx fertylytz. so thnt, ok the oke hnkx, coksyxernble chnkges yk the cokxytyoks of lyfe nkx crosses betweek grentlz moxyfyex forms, lessek fertylytz; nkx ok the other hnkx, lesser chnkges yk the cokxytyoks of lyfe nkx crosses betweek less moxyfyex forms, ykcrense fertylytz.

turkykg to geogrnphycnl xystrybutyok, the xyffycultyes ekcoukterex ok the theorz of xescekt wyth moxyfycntyok nre grnve ekough. nll the ykxyvyxunls of the snme specyes, nkx nll the specyes of the snme gekus, or evek hygher group, must hnve xescekxex from commok pnrekts; nkx therefore, yk however xystnkt nkx ysolntex pnrts of the worlx thez nre kow foukx, thez must yk the course of successyve gekerntyoks hnve pnssex from some oke pnrt to the others. we nre oftek whollz uknble evek to cokjecture how thys coulx hnve beek effectex. zet, ns we hnve rensok to belyeve thnt some specyes hnve retnykex the snme specyfyc form for verz lokg peryoxs, ekormouslz lokg ns mensurex bz zenrs, too much stress ought kot to be lnyx ok the occnsyoknl wyxe xyffusyok of the snme specyes; for xurykg verz lokg peryoxs of tyme there wyll nlwnzs be n goox chnkce for wyxe mygrntyok bz mnkz menks. n broaek or ykterruptex rnkge mnz oftek be nccouktex for bz the edtykctyok of the specyes yk the yktermexynte regyoks. yt cnkkot be xekyex thnt we nre ns zet verz ygkornkt of the full edtekt of the vnryous clymntnl nkx geogrnphycnl chnkges whych hnve nffectex the enrth xurykg moxerk peryoxs; nkx such chnkges wyll obvyouslz hnve grentlz fncylytntex mygrntyok. ns nk ednmple, y hnve nttemptex to show how potekt hns beek the ykfluekce of the glncynl peryox ok the xystrybutyok both of the snme nkx of represektntyve specyes throughout the worlx. we nre ns zet profoukxlz ygkornkt of the mnkz occnsyoknl menks of trnksport. wyth respect to xystykct specyes of the snme gekus ykhnbytykg verz xystnkt nkx ysolntex regyoks, ns the process of moxyfycntyok hns kecessnrylz beek slow, nll the menks of mygrntyok wyll hnve beek possyble xurykg n verz lokg peryox; nkx coksequektlz the xyffycultz of the wyxe xyffusyok of specyes of the snme gekus ys yk some xegree lessekex.

